Local Storage.
There's two chief distinctions, or ground-level distinctions,
when it comes to fixed-disk storage.
That is,
the persistent storage that's permanently mounted inside
your laptop or desktop PC chassis, or potentially your tablet device or phone.
We have first the hard disk drive, also called HDD.
Now the HDD has been around since the beginning of computing.
This is a mechanical disk device, and as such, it's generally unreliable.
You want to be careful after an HDD's been around
more than say three/four years,
and be a little suspect about its capacity to store data reliably.
It always reminds me of the old jukeboxes.
If you remember those, if you're old enough to remember the jukebox,
where you had a stack of platters,
and then you could press a button and then this mechanical apparition
would retrieve the appropriate 45 or 33 and a third,
or 78 rpm vinyl record, and then bring the needle over,
and it was relatively clunky, but we had a good time.
That's how HDDs work.
They're slower, they're less expensive than the alternative.
And what's the alternative, Tim?
That would be solid-state disks, or SSDs.
The advantages here are speed.
We have no moving parts.
We use flash memory technology,
which is going to give you much faster performance.
You have greater shock absorbency.
If you drop an HDD on the ground and any of those platters go out of alignment,
or if the read/write head goes out of alignment,
you're in big trouble.
SSD is much more friendly to those kind of insults.
Now SSD storage, as you would imagine, is more expensive than HDD storage,
but the prices have really come down significantly over the years.
Now if there's an issue with SSD,
it would be that the flash memory has a fixed number of read/write operations
before you reach what's called the mean time before failure,
or MTBF.
That introduces the concept of disk maintenance,
which is largely what we're discussing in this module.
I want to buzz through some of the storage interfaces used with fixed disk,
and potentially sometimes external disk storage that works with Windows 10.
We have the Serial ATA standard, the cable looks like this.
They're much better than the old IDE, integrated drive electronics,
ribbon cables that we had back in the bad old days.
Now this isn't a CompTIA A+ or hardware course,
so I'm going to tread pretty quickly on this section.
We have SCSI, Serial Attached SCSI,
this form factor is normally used with server disk drives.
Sometimes in Windows 10,
you might have a high-performance workstation that requires the greater
input/output operations that SAS and SCSI disks can give you.
ISCSI is actually a network storage protocol that allows you to
connect to remote physical storage as if it's local.
And then IEEE 1394 is the specification for what's called FireWire.
Now this is used mostly for external disks,
and to that point, it's largely gone the way of the dodo.
In general, if you have need to connect to FireWire storage nowadays,
you're going to need to purchase an adapter card to
give you the appropriate port.
Nowadays on the outside of a case you're going to have one or more of the USB,
maybe a USB-type C port, and inside a desktop PC anyway,
you're almost guaranteed to see SATA, or Serial Attached SCSI,
depending upon the class of the machine.
Speaking of USB, that's obviously a universal interface for storage,
among many other peripherals.
What you may not be familiar with though is the InfiniBand standard.
This is used exclusively in business,
and even more exclusively in business enterprises to provide super
high-speed interconnections between servers.
Normally it would be an integrated system,
like Microsoft has what's called Azure STAT.
It's essentially a black box,
it's a rack device that consists of hyper-converged
systems where you have your servers, and your storage,
and your switches, all together in an integrated rack appliance.
Oracle has sold rack-mounted solutions themselves,
and when you have that kind of density of servers that require super,
super high-speed interconnections, they will generally rely upon InfiniBand,
and then the InfiniBand switch will connect to an Ethernet
switch that gives the servers in that appliance the ability to
connect to the rest of your network, and then of course, ultimately the internet.